This is a ‘README’ file.
Before you start simulation, please read the following instructions.

1.  Firstly, you can directly run the code ‘MainLJ.py’ at palmetto. You do not need any inputs. The output of the main code is the saved .csv  files containing energy or temperature. These files may called ‘Total_energyMD’, ’temperautreMD’, ‘Kinetic_energyMD’ and 'Potential_energyMD' for MD simulation and ‘energyMC’ for MC method.  If you want to make plot using these files, please note that the first column of the data is time steps or MC steps, and the second column is the energy or temperature.

2. I will guide you how to perform the specified simulation with different methods and in different ensembles.
(1) Open the file “MainLJ.py”. 
(2) At line 17, choose the simulation method by letting Meth = ‘MD’ or ‘MC’. ‘MD’ stands for Molecular Dynamics method and ‘MC’ stands for Monte Carlo approach.
(3) At line 24, choose what ensemble you want to use. If ‘thermo = 0’, you are conducting your simulation in an NVE ensemble and if ‘thermo = 0’, you are conducting your simulation in an NVT ensemble.
(4) At line 29, choose integrator by letting integrator be 1 or 2. (1 is Semi-implicit Euler and 2 is Velocity Verlet)
(5) At lines 32 and 35, choose the total time steps you would like to run and the step size. Here we do not recommend you to change the default step size. However, you can choose to perform more time steps to see a better trend. The given time steps 3000 approximately requires 40 min. With 6000 steps, it will be easier to see the convergence of the energy in NVE ensemble.
(6) Note that ‘Meth = MC’ only performs at NVT ensemble and does not require integrators. Thus making changes at (3) and (4) do not influence the results for MC.

3. Now, I will show you how to change the parameters for the initial configurations.
(1) Firstly, you can change the volume of the box by choosing the length of the box at line 47.
(2) Choosing the number of particles is trivial here. You need to specify the number of partitions ‘L’ for the length. Since we put 4 particles at each cell, the total number of the LJ particles will be 4*L*L*L.
So, the value of L has to be an integer and will determine the total number of particles ’N’.
(4) Choosing the range of the initial velocity by setting the maximum velocity ‘v0’ at line 69.
(5) At line 80, the initial configuration is generated by the function ‘initiali’. Or you have another option at lines 82 and 83. They are the saved configurations generated by ‘initiali’ previously.

4. Then, the desired temperature for NVT is Tc. You can change it by your preference at line 92.

5. Finally, all the functions used in the main code are from the module ‘MultDef’ written by me. Thus, be sure that you have the file called ‘MultDef.py’ in the same folder as ‘MainLJ.py’.

6. The module code and main code, both have descriptions about their functions, inputs and outputs. You can read them in detail. 

